The Google Home Hub may be small in size, but it's surprisingly useful in a lot of ways, from organizing your smart home to walking you through a complex recipe, to finding you a place to eat if your cooking efforts fall short.

The small gadget is made mighty by the great Google Assistant, and the line is blurry between where the actual hardware of the Google Home Hub shines and where the digital Google Assistant does all of the heavy lifting. To an extent, that differentiation might not matter for your buying decision. The Hub is a $149 (£139, AU$219) smart display that combines the functionality of a voice-controlled smart speaker like the original Google Home with a touchscreen you can use to look at pictures, watch videos, browse recipes, control your smart home and more.

If you're a fan of Google and want a Google-centric smart home, or if you just like the idea of a smart speaker with a screen and want to try one out for the step-by-step recipe guides, I recommend the Google Home Hub. The seamless touch controls and intuitive voice commands will even help the tech-phobic members of your family get used to it.

The differentiation between hardware and software becomes much more important if you're able to spend a little more and are willing to consider third-party smart displays alongside Google's. Both Lenovo and JBL have smart displays with Google Assistant built-in and most of the same features as the Home Hub. I still prefer Google Assistant's use of the touchscreen to Amazon's, but the new $230 (£220, AU$349) Amazon Echo Show is pretty good if you're already invested in Amazon's assistant Alexa. If not, go with the $250 Lenovo Smart Display if you want a big screen and the most stylish design. Go with the $200 JBL Link View for great sound quality. (Neither are yet available in the UK or Australia.)

The Google Home Hub is the only major smart display so far without a camera, which might be a negative for some, but privacy-minded folks will appreciate its absence. Otherwise, it offers all the same features as the other smart displays for less, which makes the Google Home Hub a cute, useful gadget at a nice value.

Good things in small packages

The Google Home Hub is tiny. It sort of looks like Google stuck a thin, 7-inch tablet onto a Google Home Mini. It's simple -- a screen and a stand covered in fabric.

It has two forward-facing microphones on a bezel surrounding the 7-inch screen. The middle dot between the mics is an ambient light sensor, not a camera. On the back of the Home Hub you'll find a switch that mutes the microphone and buttons for controlling the volume, and that's it. If you want to do anything else with the Home Hub, you'll need to use its touchscreen or give it a voice command.
You can pick from four possible colors for the fabric -- chalk, charcoal, aqua and sand. We tested the chalk model, but all four colors are otherwise the same and all cost $149. You can buy the Google Home Hub starting Monday at Best Buy, Walmart, Target and other electronics retailers as well as online via the Google Store. (See here for the UK and Australia.)

Google bundles a six-month trial of YouTube Premium with the purchase of a Home Hub. The service costs $12 (£12, AU$15) a month after the trial ends and allows you to listen to YouTube's music library without ads.
An entertainment hub

You don't need a subscription to watch ordinary YouTube videos on the Home Hub. You can search for them by voice and scroll through the options with your voice or with touch. YouTube gives the Google Home Hub an advantage over the Amazon Echo Show. Google pulled the rights to the streaming site from Amazon's competing smart display over a dispute last year. You can watch YouTube on the Echo Show, but only via a browser, which doesn't respond to voice commands.

The videos also look surprisingly crisp on the petite 7-inch screen. If you have a subscription to YouTube's live TV service -- YouTube TV -- you can watch live TV on the Hub as well. It certainly won't replace your main TV, but again, the picture looks good, so this feature could come in handy if you want to watch the news in the morning while you make breakfast.
Otherwise, you can watch streaming videos through services such as HBO Now and CNET's sister site CBS All Access on the Hub itself. You can't watch Netflix on the Hub yet, but as with any of Google's smart speakers, you can issue a voice command to the Hub to start streaming Netflix on any of your TVs with a Chromecast streamer or Chromecast built-in.


You have plenty of options for listening to music on the Hub as well. Other than YouTube music, you can sync your account for Google Play Music, Pandora and Spotify. You can also set any of those services as your default, so Google Assistant will search there first when you ask it to play a song.

Once you start playing music, you can use the Google Home app to customize the speaker equalizer settings if you want a little more bass or treble. You can also add the Home Hub to speaker groups with other Google Assistant smart speakers or speakers connected to a Chromecast audio streamer. If you don't like the sound quality of the Home Hub, you can also set another speaker as your default and it will automatically start playing music on that device instead of through its own speakers.
You might not like the sound quality of the Home Hub if you're an audiophile. It's fine if you want to listen to background music, but it's not particularly loud or crisp. Unfortunately, the sound quality isn't in the same league as other smart displays like the Amazon Echo Show or the JBL Link View. In fact, the sound quality is more on par with Google's smallest smart speaker -- the Google Home Mini, which even beat the Home Hub slightly in our tests.

Thankfully, the Hub's microphones held up better under scrutiny. The Home Hub understood my voice commands from across the large great room of the CNET Smart Home. It even heard me from an adjacent room as long as I had the door open. It also fared well over background noise while I stood in the same room. Expect to need to speak up if you're playing loud music, but that's standard for any smart speaker. The second-generation Amazon Echo Show heard me more often from a greater distance, but the Hub's mics are on par with those in the smart displays from Lenovo and JBL.
A versatile personal assistant

You can issue a wide variety of voice commands to the Google Home Hub. Plug it in and set it up on your Wi-Fi using the Google Home app, then, thanks to the built-in Google Assistant, you can ask Google Home Hub any question you'd ask the original Google Home.

As we saw on the Lenovo Smart Display and the JBL Link View, Google Assistant makes good use of the touchscreen with helpful visuals after you ask a question. Check the weather, and you'll see illustrations of the forecast for the week. Search for local restaurants and you'll see pics of nearby places.


You can then scroll through the options and tap one for more info. Google will even show you how to get there on a map and send the directions to your phone. This will work automatically if you have an Android phone and it works on Apple's iPhones too, as long as you have the Google Assistant app installed.
You can also make calls with the Home Hub. Since Google Assistant can recognize your individual voice, it can find numbers from your phone's list of contacts and dial. The recipient will even see that it's you calling. You can make video calls with the Hub too, but you're limited to using Google Duo -- Google's mobile app for video chats. Since Home Hub doesn't have a camera, you'll be able to look at the recipient but they won't be able to see you.

You can always swipe right on the screen to go back a page, or swipe up for quick settings like volume and brightness. You can't download apps or browse the web as you could on an ordinary tablet, but all of the content of the Google Home Hub is meant to be visible from across the room.

Other helpful features include routines, which allow you to play videos or podcasts, get directions to work and turn on your connected lights with a simple command like "good morning." If you control your smart home with a voice command, you'll see your device pop up on the screen. Change the temp of your thermostat, and you'll see buttons and sliders to tweak the temp further or change the mode.

All of these features are the same on all of the Google Assistant-equipped smart displays, and my favorite feature of both the Lenovo Smart Display and the JBL Link View has made its way intact to the Google Home Hub. Search for a recipe by voice, or find one in your phone and send it to your display. Google Assistant will read the ingredients and directions out loud and you can see them listed on the screen.

If you ask "how much tomato sauce?" Google will understand that you're referring to the recipe and will give the appropriate answer. You can also multitask while you cook and watch videos, play music, set a timer or add something to your shopping list. Simply say "resume cooking" when you're ready and Google will go right back to where you left off in the recipe. It's a great feature that's well ahead of Alexa's similar recipe feature on the Echo Show.

Oddly, Google didn't use the same operating system on the Home Hub that it used for the Lenovo Smart Display and the JBL Link View. The third-party devices make use of Android Things -- an open version of the company's famous mobile operating system trimmed down for the sake of connected devices. The Home Hub is built off of Cast -- the same operating system you see when you use Chromecast on your TV.

Diya Jolly, Google's VP of product management, told Ars Technica there was no particular reason for the change. "We just felt we could bring the experience to bear with Cast, and the experiences are the same. We would have easily given the third-parties Cast if they wanted it, but I think most developers are comfortable using Android Things."

Building all of this functionality onto a different operating system resulted in a few annoyances. When you search for recipes, you can easily scroll through your options with your voice. In this case, scrolling works better than it does on the third-party displays. When you search for restaurants, Google won't recognize the scroll command and will return to the home screen and make you start your search over. The third-party displays don't suffer from this glitch.

Despite the different operating systems, the three devices generally offer the same features and look the same when responding to your commands. Google did save a couple of unique tricks for the Home Hub.

A Digital Wellbeing section of the Google Home app will allow parents to set filters on what videos and music can be streamed to the device. It also allows you to set "downtime" hours in which the Hub won't react to voice commands and can only be used for alarms. You can also screen calls so only recognized contacts come through and only during certain times. The Digital Wellbeing section will be available on third-party displays soon.

Most of the other changes will be rolling out to the third-party displays eventually, but one in particular will help the Hub stand out from the competition in perpetuity.

A super smart digital picture frame
Instead of a camera, the Google Home Hub has an ambient light sensor and a new AI feature called Ambient EQ. The feature gauges the light in the room, and adjusts both the brightness and warmth of the picture on the screen to match. The results are fantastic. The Ambient EQ feature is undoubtedly why videos look so good on such a small screen, but it's at its best when the Home Hub has a picture on display.

The other smart displays we've tested can also automatically adjust their brightness based on ambient light to an extent, but the Home Hub is much better at it.

Pictures look like they would if you'd printed them and framed them. Turn off the lights or move the Hub and the sensor adapts the picture quickly. In a darkened room, other displays blare light such that they look like a glowing billboard. The Home Hub adapts and fits dim lighting conditions perfectly as well.

You can customize the ambient mode of the Home Hub using the Home app to show Google's collection of artwork or a variety of different clock faces. You can also tell the Hub to show personal pictures and Google can curate them for you using the new Live Albums.


Using the Google Photos app on your phone, Google Assistant can help you sort pictures by people or places based on where they were taken and who it recognizes. Then, if you tell the Home Hub to use pictures of your kids in ambient mode, you can keep taking shots and Google Assistant will automatically add new ones to the mix. Google successfully curated the pictures I took of my coworkers this week. It filtered out the bad ones where the subject was out of focus or not properly framed, and showed the rest on the Hub.


My favorite new feature of the Home Hub will come to Google's third-party displays via an update soon. Swipe down on the touchscreen for a smart home control panel. The panel shows a status of your home including how many lights are on and the current temperature. You'll see shortcut buttons for common tasks that change based on what devices you have synced to your Google Assistant.

You can quickly turn off lights, lock doors or broadcast a message with these shortcuts. At the bottom of the dropdown menu, Google shows lights for the current location you've assigned to the Home Hub. You can also use this menu to "view rooms" and see all of your devices organized by room.

The Home Hub's smart home control panel mirrors the new Google Home app. The app used to be strictly for setting up Google's smart speakers and connecting your smart home devices. Now it functions as a smart home control center as well. You can assign devices to rooms. You can invite family members to your home. You can also segment your gadgets into multiple homes if you have an office and an apartment.


In practice, the organization of the panel works well and makes a lot of intuitive sense. For the most part, I still prefer controlling connected devices with my voice, but the panel provides a handy visual reference. If you forget the name of a device, you can check it with a couple of taps.

Amazon introduced a similar control scheme in the new Show, but it doesn't offer the same handy shortcuts or room-by-room breakdown. I like that both Amazon and Google are expanding beyond voice controls for your smart home, but right now, Google's touch controls are more intuitive and generally more useful.

The only issue I had with the Home Hub's smart home controls came from the Nest Hello video doorbell. You can have the Home Hub show the feed from the door when someone rings the bell, but you can't actually answer it and talk to the person with the Home Hub yet. Even getting this announcements feature to work is a pain as you'll need to search around in Nest's settings to enable it.

Using the Nest Hello as an ordinary cam and checking on the stream with a voice command is a breeze, but I wish the interaction with the Home Hub when someone rings the bell was more seamless and complete.

The Google Home Hub has entered a newly competitive field of smart displays that includes the second-generation $230 Amazon Echo Show, the upcoming $200 Facebook Portal and $350 Portal Plus, as well as two other smart displays with Google Assistant -- the $250 Lenovo Smart Display and $250 JBL Link View. The Facebook Portal will feature Alexa, but it looks more focused on video calls and less on using the touchscreen to help answer your questions. As for the Echo Show, it has the best mics and speakers of the bunch, but Google Assistant offers better touch controls for the smart home and for cooking than Alexa.

Between the three Google Assistant equipped displays, you'll want to go with one of the other options for booming sound quality or a built-in cam. The Home Hub is the cheapest and cutest of the bunch. It's also just as good as the competition in every way other than sound quality. It's even better than the competition when you're not using it, as it'll blend in and beautifully display your family's pictures. Given its appealing look and relatively inexpensive price, I'm guessing the Home Hub will be popular, so if it leads the fledgling field of smart displays into the mainstream, I'm happy to say it's up to the job.
